# Industry Lab: Input and Output (IO)


## Exercise One: Simple IO Problems
1. Consider the file **input1.txt**, which is located in the lab folder. What is the output of the following code?

    ```java
    private void fileReaderEx01() {
      int num = 0;
      FileReader fR = null;
      try {
        fR = new FileReader("input1.txt");
        num = fR.read();
        System.out.println(num);
        System.out.println(fR.read());
        System.out.println(fR.read());
        System.out.println(fR.read());
        System.out.println(fR.read());
        fR.close();
      } catch(IOException e) {
        System.out.println("IO problem");
      }
    }
    ```
    
    ```text
    
    
    
    
    ```

2. Complete the **printNumEsWithFileReader()** method in the **ExerciseOne** class, which should use a `FileReader` to read **input2.txt** and print out the following information:

	* The total number of characters in the file, and:
	* The number of e’s and E’s in the file.

3. Repeat step 2, but this time complete the **printNumEsWithBufferedReader()** method, and use a `BufferedReader`.


## Exercise Two: PrintWriter & BufferedReader
1. In the ex02 package, you’ll find the **MyWriter** class. Currently, this lets a user enter a file name, then type as many lines of text as they wish, using the keyboard. For this task, modify the **start()** method so that it properly uses a `PrintWriter` to write every line the user types to the file that the user specified.

	* **Hint:** Try to only open / close the file once, but you can write to it as many times as you need to.
	* **Hint #2:** You can check that your program is working as intended by looking at the output file in a text editor.

2. Now, complete the **MyReader** class, which should again prompt the user to enter a file name, then should use a `BufferedReader` to open the file, read all the text in that file, and print it out. Check that it works by reading one of the provided input text files, and / or your own output from part 1 of this exercise.

3. In the **MyScanner** class, create another program for printing out the contents of a text file. The functionality should be identical to that in part 2. This time, use a `Scanner`.


## Exercise Three: DataInputStream & DataOutputStream
In the ex03 package you’ll see the **Movie** class from a previous lab. In this exercise, we’ll create two programs: the first will create a file containing data for lots of movies, while the second one will read that file and create Movie objects.

1. Complete **MovieWriter’s saveMovies** method. This method should use a `DataOutputStream` to write the contents of the films array to the given file. 
   **Note:** You should not make any assumptions about the number of movies in the array – your program (and the one in part 2) should work for any number of movies! It might pay to *write the number of movies to the file*, as well as the movies themselves.
2. Complete **MovieReader’s loadMovies** method. This method should use a `DataInputStream` to read the contents of the given file and use it to create, fill and return an array of Movie objects.


## Exercise Four: CSV Files
In this exercise we’ll use something other than DataInputStream and DataOutputStream to load and save movies.
1. In the ex04 package you’ll see Ex4MovieWriter, which extends exercise three’s MovieWriter class, and expects a different implementation of **saveMovies**. Implement this version of the method so that it uses a `PrintWriter` to output a **CSV-style file**, with each line in the file representing a separate movie.
2. In the ex04 package you’ll see Ex4MovieReader, which extends exercise three’s MovieReader class, and expects a different implementation of **loadMovies**. Implement this version of the method so that it uses a `Scanner` to successfully read the files generated by part 1 of this exercise.
For more information on CSV files, you can visit this [link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values).


# Challenges
These exercises are extension material for you to work on once you've completed all other lab exercises. If you don't get round to them during the lab, that's OK. In that case, it's a good idea to come back to them later on in the course, once you're more comfortable with the course content.

**Note:** Support from tutors / instructors on these questions is extremely limited, as their focus will be on assisting students with the preceding exercises.


## Challenge Exercise Five: Reading & Writing Objects
Java has a mechanism called **serialization**, which allows you to read / write entire Java objects from / to files.

For this exercise, *investigate* the use of this serialization mechanism, and use it to read / write the movie list from exercises three and four.

**Hint:** A good place to start would be to Google “Java serialization”. There are many excellent resources available online which explain how this works.


## Challenge Exercise Six: Other File Formats
**XML** and **JSON** are two widely used file formats. Java libraries exist which allow you to read / write files in both of these formats. Like Java serialization, they can be used to write entire Java objects - but in a format that’s human-readable and *platform agnostic*.

Investigate one or both of these formats, and use them to read / write the movie list from exercises three and four.


